build-static-tmux/README.md, before:

# Build Static tmux

This directory contains scripts and configuration to build a fully static tmux binary for Linux using musl libc.

## Overview

The build process compiles the following components from source:
1. **musl libc** - Provides static C library and `musl-gcc` wrapper
2. **libevent** - Event notification library
3. **ncurses** - Terminal handling library
4. **tmux** - Terminal multiplexer

The resulting binary is completely static and runs on any Linux distribution without dynamic library dependencies.

## Requirements

### For direct build on Fedora/RHEL:
- gcc
- make
- wget
- tar
- gzip
- xz
- bison

Install with:
```bash
sudo dnf install -y gcc make wget tar gzip xz bison
```

### For container build:
- Podman or Docker

## Usage

### Method 1: Direct Build

Build directly on your system:

```bash
# Make script executable
chmod +x build-static-tmux.sh

# Build with default settings (tmux 3.6)
./build-static-tmux.sh

# Build specific version
./build-static-tmux.sh -v 3.4

# Build with UPX compression
./build-static-tmux.sh -c

# Build with verbose error output
./build-static-tmux.sh -d
```

### Method 2: Build with Podman/Docker

Use a container to build (recommended for isolation):

```bash
# Make script executable
chmod +x build-with-podman.sh

# Build with default settings
./build-with-podman.sh

# Build specific version
./build-with-podman.sh -v 3.4

# Build with UPX compression
./build-with-podman.sh -c
```

### Method 3: Manual Container Build

```bash
# Build container image
podman build -t tmux-static-builder -f Containerfile .

# Run build
podman run --rm -v $(pwd)/output:/output:Z tmux-static-builder

# Build specific version with UPX
podman run --rm \
    -e TMUX_VERSION=3.5 \
    -e USE_UPX=1 \
    -v $(pwd)/output:/output:Z \
    tmux-static-builder
```

## Output Files

After building, the following files are created:

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `tmux.linux-amd64.gz` | Standard static binary (gzipped) |
| `tmux.linux-amd64.stripped.gz` | Stripped binary, smaller size (gzipped) |
| `tmux.linux-amd64.upx.gz` | UPX compressed binary, smallest (gzipped, if -c used) |

### Using the Binary

```bash
# Extract
gunzip tmux.linux-amd64.stripped.gz

# Make executable
chmod +x tmux.linux-amd64.stripped

# Run
./tmux.linux-amd64.stripped

# Or copy to your PATH
sudo mv tmux.linux-amd64.stripped /usr/local/bin/tmux
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `TMUX_VERSION` | tmux version to build | 3.6 |
| `MUSL_VERSION` | musl libc version | 1.2.5 |
| `NCURSES_VERSION` | ncurses version | 6.5 |
| `LIBEVENT_VERSION` | libevent version | 2.1.12 |
| `UPX_VERSION` | UPX version | 5.0.2 |
| `TMUX_STATIC_HOME` | Build directory | /tmp/tmux-static |
| `USE_UPX` | Enable UPX compression (1/0) | 0 |
| `DUMP_LOG_ON_ERROR` | Show logs on error (1/0) | 0 |

## GitHub Actions

The workflow in `.github/workflows/build-static-tmux.yml` automatically:

1. Builds on releases - when a new release is published
2. Supports manual trigger with version selection
3. Tests the built binary
4. Uploads artifacts
5. Attaches binaries to releases

### Triggering Manual Build

1. Go to Actions tab in GitHub
2. Select "Build Static tmux" workflow
3. Click "Run workflow"
4. Enter tmux version and options
5. Click "Run workflow"

## Supported Architectures

- `linux-amd64` (x86_64)
- `linux-arm64` (aarch64) - when building on ARM systems

## Troubleshooting

### Build fails with dependency error
```bash
# Install all dependencies
sudo dnf install -y gcc make wget tar gzip xz bison binutils
```

### Build fails in container
```bash
# Check container logs
podman logs <container_id>

# Run with verbose output
podman run --rm -e DUMP_LOG_ON_ERROR=1 -v $(pwd)/output:/output:Z tmux-static-builder
```

### Binary doesn't run on target system
- Ensure you're using the correct architecture (amd64/arm64)
- Check if terminfo is available: `ls /usr/share/terminfo`

## License

This build script is part of the TMux OpenShift Tools project.

Commit message:

fix assets deletion when using build-static-tmux script

build-static-tmux/README.md, after:

# Build Static tmux

This directory contains scripts and configuration to build a fully static tmux binary for Linux using musl libc.

## Overview

The build process compiles the following components from source:
1. **musl libc** - Provides static C library and `musl-gcc` wrapper
2. **libevent** - Event notification library
3. **ncurses** - Terminal handling library
4. **tmux** - Terminal multiplexer

The resulting binary is completely static and runs on any Linux distribution without dynamic library dependencies.

## Requirements

### For direct build on Fedora/RHEL:
- gcc
- make
- wget
- tar
- gzip
- xz
- bison

Install with:
```bash
sudo dnf install -y gcc make wget tar gzip xz bison
```

### For container build:
- Podman or Docker

## Usage

### Method 1: Direct Build

Build directly on your system:

```bash
# Make script executable
chmod +x build-static-tmux.sh

# Build with default settings (tmux 3.6)
./build-static-tmux.sh

# Build specific version
./build-static-tmux.sh -v 3.4

# Build with UPX compression
./build-static-tmux.sh -c

# Build with verbose error output
./build-static-tmux.sh -d
```

### Method 2: Build with Podman/Docker

Use a container to build (recommended for isolation):

```bash
# Make script executable
chmod +x build-with-podman.sh

# Build with default settings
./build-with-podman.sh

# Build specific version
./build-with-podman.sh -v 3.4

# Build with UPX compression
./build-with-podman.sh -c
```

### Method 3: Manual Container Build

```bash
# Build container image
podman build -t tmux-static-builder -f Containerfile .

# Run build
podman run --rm -v $(pwd)/output:/output:Z tmux-static-builder

# Build specific version with UPX
podman run --rm \
    -e TMUX_VERSION=3.5 \
    -e USE_UPX=1 \
    -v $(pwd)/output:/output:Z \
    tmux-static-builder
```

## Output Files

After building, the following files are created:

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `tmux.linux-amd64.gz` | Standard static binary (gzipped) |
| `tmux.linux-amd64.stripped.gz` | Stripped binary, smaller size (gzipped) |
| `tmux.linux-amd64.upx.gz` | UPX compressed binary, smallest (gzipped, if -c used) |

### Using the Binary

```bash
# Extract
gunzip tmux.linux-amd64.stripped.gz

# Make executable
chmod +x tmux.linux-amd64.stripped

# Run
./tmux.linux-amd64.stripped

# Or copy to your PATH
sudo mv tmux.linux-amd64.stripped /usr/local/bin/tmux
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `TMUX_VERSION` | tmux version to build | 3.6 |
| `MUSL_VERSION` | musl libc version | 1.2.5 |
| `NCURSES_VERSION` | ncurses version | 6.5 |
| `LIBEVENT_VERSION` | libevent version | 2.1.12 |
| `UPX_VERSION` | UPX version | 5.0.2 |
| `TMUX_STATIC_HOME` | Build directory | /tmp/tmux-static |
| `USE_UPX` | Enable UPX compression (1/0) | 0 |
| `DUMP_LOG_ON_ERROR` | Show logs on error (1/0) | 0 |

## GitHub Actions

The workflow in `.github/workflows/build-static-tmux.yml` automatically:

1. Builds on push to master, releases, or manual trigger
2. Determines tmux version from release tag or uses default (3.6)
3. Builds static tmux binary
4. Uploads artifacts
5. Deletes existing release with same tag (including all assets)
6. Creates new release with updated binaries

The workflow properly handles release updates by:
- Deleting all existing release assets via GitHub API
- Removing the release and git tag
- Creating a fresh release with new binaries

### Triggering Manual Build

1. Go to Actions tab in GitHub
2. Select "Build Static tmux" workflow
3. Click "Run workflow"
4. Enter tmux version and options
5. Click "Run workflow"

## Supported Architectures

- `linux-amd64` (x86_64)
- `linux-arm64` (aarch64) - when building on ARM systems

## Troubleshooting

### Build fails with dependency error
```bash
# Install all dependencies
sudo dnf install -y gcc make wget tar gzip xz bison binutils
```

### Build fails in container
```bash
# Check container logs
podman logs <container_id>

# Run with verbose output
podman run --rm -e DUMP_LOG_ON_ERROR=1 -v $(pwd)/output:/output:Z tmux-static-builder
```

### Binary doesn't run on target system
- Ensure you're using the correct architecture (amd64/arm64)
- Check if terminfo is available: `ls /usr/share/terminfo`

## License

This build script is part of the TMux OpenShift Tools project.
